
	[Help]
Memo1.Text	MMArchive v1.0.3
(c) Sergey Rozhenko
http://sites.google.com/site/sergroj/
sergroj@mail.ru

With this program you can edit any archive of Might&Magic 6-8 or Heroes 3, except *.hwl.
Here I'll explain the most unobvious things about the program and its use.

A double click on preview window will expand it to fit the image size.


[ Optimizing archives ]
"Optimize" was called "Rebuild" in LodAdd. When you replace or delete files, it causes archive fragmentation and increase in archive size. If you your archive grow too large, use the "Optimize" button to decrease archive size to minimum.
If you change a .vid archive, optimization is especially important. MM7View won't be able to show or extract files you've added until you optimize the archive. mm8leveleditor will extract files of bigger size. That's because .vid archives lack information about files sizes. My tools get that information directly from files, other tools don't expect .vid archives to ever be fragmented. The game has no problems showing videos from fragmented .vid archives, because it doesn't need files sizes for that.


[ Adding files ]
You can use "Add" button or drag files on MMExtension window to add them.
In h3bitmap.lod of Heroes 3 pictures have ".pcx" extension, but you can use bitmaps instead. The program will rename them to ".pcx" automatically.

To add images to M&M archives always use simple ".bmp" extension. Bitmaps in M&M always have 256 colors. If you add a bitmap into icons.lod MMArchive converts it to 256 colors, but quality is better if you convert images to 256 colors in a professional graphics editor.
When you add pictures into sprites.lod or bitmaps.lod you may see an error message about their palettes. That's because images in sprites.lod don't have palettes in them, instead they contain a pelette number that refers to "PAL*" file in bitmaps.lod. Bitmaps in bitmaps.lod, dispite having their own palettes, also refer to a "PAL*" index. This means that each bitmap in these archives must have corresponding palette added to bitmaps.lod.
So, If you have an image with new a palette, you must first add the new palette into bitmaps.lod with some unused palette index. The program will automatically find the palette when you add bitmaps.
Note: mm8leveleditor uses extensions ".sprite.bmp", ".tga.bmp", ".4tga.0.bmp" - ".4tga.3.bmp". MMArchive always uses ".bmp". Zoom levels ".4tga.1.bmp" - ".4tga.3.bmp" are generated automatically, so you shouldn't worry about them.

To add a palette you should take a bitmap with this palette and rename it under the name of palette you need, WITHOUT extension (e.g. "PAL722"). Then you can import it as usual. You can also import palettes in ".act" format.
There's another problem with palettes. Only 50 palettes may be used in a map. So, you must reuse palettes for bitmaps with similar colors that are gonna be used together on one level. In future I may remove this limitation with my patches.


[ Monster sprites in M&M ]
Monster sprites are special. They have 3 palettes which are specified in dsft.bin file. Usually their palette numbers are subsequent to palette specified for their sprites in sprites.lod. You can select them in Palette menu. Here are some tips of how to make a monster:

The easiest way:
Render cadres of your monster as one variation, convert them into 256 colors with a common palette for them with background color at the first index (you can do this with DefTool v2: http://sites.google.com/site/sergroj/wog/DefTool2.rar?attredirects=0). Save one of cadres under the name of first palette.
Then you'll need to make two more palettes. To do this you change one cadre using effects like Hue/Saturation/Brightness and Brightness/Contrast. These effects only change palette, not changing palette indexes assigned to pixels of bitmap. Make another palette this way and you're done. Import all the things.

The most interesting way:
1 set of cadres + 3 palettes is a self-limitation of NWC used to reduce virtual memory demands, size of sprite.lod and loading times. You don't have to adhere to these limitations. You can make 3 variations of monster model. They can defer by color, shape, anything. Think of them as of 3 different monsters - render them under different names, convert each into 256 colors with separate palettes (again, with DefTool v2 or a similar approach). Then import them and contact me to change dsft.bin. You'll also need to use the last version of my patch, because it removes limits on number of loaded sprites and on amount of virtual memory M&M games can use.

The hardest way:
If you look at monsters with Default chosen in Palette menu, you'll get the idea of how NWC rendered them. Mostly, they have one area that doesn't change color between variations and one or more areas that do change color. All these areas don't have any similar colors. If you choose this way, contact me about changing palettes, I'll give you a tool for that.

