Mirko	Mirko became addicted to the swords at an early age. As a squire of Ivanhow he learned how to handle the sword. Later as a lansquenet he had the chance to learn archery from Sir Orrin and pick up a bit of the art of magic from fellow scholars. Because of his courage, he was inserted as a captain in the army of Orrin in the battles around Erathia.
Vasily	The youngest of Valeska's crossbowmen is her brother, Vasily. He gets teased by the other archers, but accepts it in good humour, knowing that at sixteen he still has some growing to do. Unlike the other archers, he trains with both sword and bow, and Valeska's heart is in her mouth every time he uses the sword in battle.
Raina	When Edric's youngest sister Raina came to him and asked for a job, he was initially skeptical. She was just sixteen, and looked slender and fragile--he should have known better; she'd been handling griffins at home for years, and when she demonstrated her strength and agility, he found her a horse and a sword.
Pete	Pete was a friend of Sylvia's when she was in the Regnan Pirates. After she joined the Coastal Patrol, he was involved in an unsuccessful mutiny when his captain ordered the massacre of a captured ship's passengers, and escaped with his life only because Sylvia caught up with the pirates the same day.
Felicity	A lord will often have a leman, and Haart regarded Felicity as nothing more, until the day she cut down several skeletons while Lord Haart lay wounded, her actions prompted as much by her abiding dislike of necromancers as by any affection for her man. Since then, she's been a regular at training sessions and on the field.
Ariadne	When Ariadne turned up at her sister's training grounds, Sorsha initially suspected Ariadne of coming only to exercise her enjoyment of male company. She was right, but Aria will never admit it--and Aria can now wield a sword almost as well as her sister.
Bremmell	The men who load and prepare ballistae in battle have to be both strong and fast--but Sir Christian didn't know just HOW fast until Chief Loader Bremmell challenged him to a sparring match to prove the point. Bremmell was immediately promoted, and his brother now serves in his place.
Gregor	A blacksmith isn't often seen on the battlefield, but the man who shoes Tyris' horses has an arm as strong as the steel he pounds, and Gregor is not afraid to use it!
Sasha	When Rion fed and cared for a little black kitten, he thought nothing of adding a padded basket to his packhorse for it. When an elegant black woman began appearing to assist in his battles a year later, however, he was rather more surprised; but Sasha soon won his heart.
Bayjar	While commanding the Whitestone garrison, Adela met Bayjar, a fierce warrior who sometimes got carried away, for sometimes the red tide of anger that let nothing stand in its path threatened to overwhelm him. However, Adela sensed that if the anger could be controlled, she would have a powerful ally, and now Bayjar serves her, both as bodyguard and as Commander of her armies.
Conti Ovamber	Being a cleric at heart himself, Cuthbert found that having a seasoned warrior as his second in command would be an asset. In his search for an honourable knight he stumbled upon Conti Ovamber, Ninevah resident and famed swordsman. Although Conti never had the urge to command huge armies and never bothered going through the rituals of becoming an official paladin or knight, he is a keen strategist. His only fault lies in too often granting life to the wrongly defeated enemies.
Annaria	For humans who reach the land of the Snow Elves, no time passes while they are away from other lands. However, offspring who are part Vori and part human grow up very quickly. So it is that Annaria, child of a brief union (in Vori terms) with the unjoined Farano, came to aid her mother in her time of need. She is agile, strong and quick-witted, and like her mother, can always see the danger before it appears. Together they make a great team.
Joumana	Joumana was a maid at Steadwick Monastery. Some may ask what a woman was doing at this religious place that is normally reserved only for men. Ingham, the head of Mahadeva's worship, knew her parents. They died during the Battle of Steadwick, and Ingham with his merciful heart adopted the young girl. Now, when even monks are called into battle, Joumana stands by Ingham's arm.
Alinia	Alinia was dubbed "the most beautiful woman alive" as a teenager. Hearing of the beauty of the peasant girl, two lords went to war over her, a war that resulted in hundreds of deaths, including Alinia's parents. Distraught over the deaths of all those people, Alinia slashed her left cheek, creating a long ghastly scar, to make herself unappealing. She entered military service, hoping a life of duty and honor would help her forget all those who died. She has only partially succeeded, and now serves Sanya, the Cleric with eyes that see all of one's self.
Jerond	Jerond was one of Loynis' favorite students until he was caught sword-fighting with trainees at the local barracks. Since Loynis could see a lot of promise in the young man, he agreed to take him on as apprentice on the condition that he go into battle with a prayer as well as a sword.
Serpentine Phoenix	After his near-death experience in a battle against the arch-demon Black Diablerie, Serpentine Phoenix decided that he would rather be part of an army with healers in it than remain a solitaire fighter. When he met Caitlin in The Lazy Dragon Inn and overheard that she was in need of a Commander to train her new recruits, he offered his services. Over the years this cushy job became too boring and when Caitlin was in need of reinforcements in the battle of Gato, he lead the relief army himself to join her side, never to leave it again.
Sagon	When Mephala returned from Avlee to aid Queen Catherine in her ongoing struggles to reunite her realm, she was accompanied by a figure wearing dark robes, going by the name of Sagon. In all the years Sagon has fought beside Mephala it is still unknown to the troops if Sagon is male or female or if he or she is indeed humanoid. The commands Sagon gives are relayed to the troops mentally and though some say it is definitely the sweet tones of a woman they hear in their heads, others believe they "hear" the harsh voice of a man.
Ratharryn	Although elves and dwarves normally seem to clash whenever they get the chance, Ufretin's friendship with Ratharryn has never wavered. Ratharryn, a male elf, joined up with Ufretin to drive back the Demoniacs when they would desecrate The Holy Vale. After this battle they always rode into combat together.
Morvan	Whoever meets Morvan never forgets him. His disfigured face, his bright eyes and his large powerful form are reasons enough for most people to shun him, and nearly all do, except for Jenova. His father is believed to have been a Daemon. Morvan has the mindset of his elven mother and the abilities of his father. He is afraid to trust anyone aside from his half-sister Jenova, whom he loyally follows.
Phagos	Once, when Ryland was in a forest, he made camp under an old beech tree. He didn't know that the tree observed him, and as he slept, the sinewy wood changed into flesh and blood. Ryland was quite used to the company of dendroids, so he was not at all surprised when he awoke and saw the old Phagos. Phagos was friendly towards Ryland and very interested to learn about his dendroid relatives. Ryland told Phagos of his acceptance by the Circle of Elder Dendroids and the shape-shifting Tree Druid decided to accompany him.
Cathbad	Nobody wanted to believe in Cathbad's prophecy of the destruction of the country by the legendary Armageddon's Blade, and thus, King Lucifer Kreegan had an easy time destroying Erathian cities until he was finally stopped. Cathbad's homeland was destroyed as well and the Druid barely reached safety in time. Thorgrim, whose dwarven home was protected from the fires, offered the scholar a new home. Since then, Cathbad accompanies his new master on his adventures.
Myrddin	Nobody knows from where he comes, and nobody knows where he goes. Myrddin emerges in AvLee whenever there are problems. Many are the times when he has warned the guardians of nature of imminent danger and his popularity within the Elven Court is growing despite his mysterious behaviour. However, he loves to carry his jokes a bit too far, even if the situation is grave and no one can therefore be angry. Now he accompanies Ivor on his next mission.
Fionn	Ever since Fionn was struck by lightning, he's had a strain of white hair and knows things he never has seen. He can heal sick people by simply touching them with his hand, and he can also throw lightning with the very same hand, which he sometimes does as a joke. Clancy the dwarf often visited Fionn's village and soon was very interested in the boy. Finally Fionn's parents gave way and permitted Clancy to take the boy with him on his journeys.
Cararia	Cararia is an elf who has accompanied Kyrre on many of her scouting missions, and the two are fast friends. Cararia jokes that while Kyrre is quick, light on her feet and great at motivational speeches, she doesn't always keep up with her defensive training. It is an unspoken contest between the two of them to never let each other get TOO far ahead in combat skills on the training grounds or in the field.
Virgil	Virgil was a settler in the wilderness for a long time. One day he had a vision in which he saw a dog and a wolf fighting. The dog defeated the wolf and ran away. He took it as a sign and decided to return to the world of humans. On his way he met Coronius with a dog at his side which was astonishingly similar to the one in his dream. Virgil recognized the creature and offered Coronius his services.
Nathair	Nathair and Uland met each other the first time on the battleground, after the last fight against Mutare, the Dragon Queen. By their outstanding skill, many that were thought to be soon dead were brought back to life. Since then, they have formed an unusually strong friendship based on their abilities and conviction. There was hardly a patient brought to their care that didn't recover. Their outstanding skill soon resulted in their recruitment into the army of AvLee.
Guinea	As a young elf, Guinea trained in archery and swordplay, but when he grew older, he discovered he had some magical abilities as well. He became Elleshar's apprentice in order to learn more spells and become more powerful. Now he's a big support for his master, but he still knows how to fight.
Brahan	After the Necromancer Sandro had been defeated and order in Erathia was again restored, Gem turned her back against the world and sought out the barely accessible Valley of Ravens where her old friend Brahan lived alone in his house. Too much had happened over the last year and she was tired of all the fighting. Often both sat before a warm chimney fire together and sometimes Brahan told stories of the many horrors which he had faced. Both would have preferred to remain forever in this lonely, idyllic valley, but it wasn't long before AvLee requested Gem's assistance. When Brahan offered his support, Gem returned to her duties with a much lighter heart.
Iolair	Eagles and dwarves seldom get along well, because ones live below ground and the other high up in the mountains. When Malcolm saw Iolair for the first time he thought he saw the end of his life, but instead of attacking the dwarf, the proud eagle landed before him and concealed himself in a puff of smoke. When Malcolm, who had squeezed himself into a rock niche, opened his eyes again, he saw a Druid before him, who examined him with a stern expression. The dwarf later learned that he was chosen for a task and that Iolair should help him.
Oengus	Melodia looked at the burning ship for a long time after it slowly sailed into the setting sun. Their father was a great man and he had, despite the many changes in Erathia, lived a rich and happy life. Oengus stood somewhat apart from her, sadly observing the sea gulls, how they flew into the light, as if they wished to accompany the dead man on his last journey. Now it was time to end Oengus' training and see whether the young man was as talented as their great ancestor predicted.
Fintan	Much about Fintan is unknown, and the white-haired man prefers it this way. When Alagar still was a child, the ancient druid took him into his hut and taught him the secrets of nature. Alagar recalls that Fintan looked the same back then as he does today. Once Fintan told him stories of his former companions and of animals and plants that no one else has ever heard of. He is, however, as secretive about the future of Antagarich as he is about his age.
Ywain	Ywain loves the fight like the rising sun in the morning fog. "The balance of Mother Earth can only be kept by measuring her inhabitants", he says, smiling, as he plays Erathian Chess with Aeris. "Why haven't you remained in AvLee like so many others?" "Because you are a daredevil, elf Aeris, and because I promised your father!"  The sun rises higher and the fog climbs up the mountains.
Elena	Elena was the owner of a Parapet and sold Gargoyles. One day Piquedram came and bought all she had. Without a job she agreed to Piquedram's suggestion to accompany him.
Fenarial	Fenarial admired her older cousin Thane as they grew up and has a secret crush on him. After graduating from Wizard's Academy, she mustered the courage to ask if she could accompany him in his travels, and he agreed. Her shyness around Thane often results in her spells accidentally blowing things up, but so far nobody's been seriously injured.
Estus Sonsong	Estus Sonsong was born with deformed stubs where her legs should be, Estus found the calling of Alchemist to be her life's work. Filled with self-loathing because of her legs, she has invented several kinds of artificial legs, but is never fully satisfied with any of her inventions. To replace her legs, she is driven to research and create ever more powerful and distinctive golems.
Angie	Angie met Neela at the Blacksmith. After a short talk, they found that they had the same interests in finely made armor. Now you find them always together, whether they are in Erathia or Bracada.
Tiameth	Like Torosar, Tiameth was much more interested in war tactics than Alchemy, even though Bracadans generally shun females in warfare. Unlike Torosar, she was not able to complete her formal Alchemist training, but instead became a master of swords which was a decided rarity in the closeted halls of Bracada. Whenever Torosar was not studying, he and Tiameth could be found in the spare Alchemy practice rooms honing their martial skills, much to the chagrin of Bracada's wizard community. Only because Torosar was such a good alchemist (despite his deep interest in tactics) did they allow the two to stay together. But it is fortunate that they did, as Tiameth has saved Torosar's life on at least two occasions.
Valini	Although Fafner is rumored to have been around Bracada's halls for at least a thousand years, it is only recently that he found himself a sparring partner. Valini is related to a titan although not quite of the same stock. Her combat abilities proved astounding after a bit of training when she demonstrated she could even take on a Naga one-on-one. She is always striving to improve herself, and with Fafner's ability in combat to sometimes nullify the enemy troops' training, she is a formidable adversary. So far, no hero except Fafner has dared to take her on in single combat.
Kedarith	Kedarith shares Rissa's fascination with converting useless soft metals into mercury, however she makes sure she keeps in shape so she can keep up with her peers. No matter whether it is in the workshop or out on the field, Kedarith is disciplined and tough to beat.
Regine	When Regine lost her lamp, she was restless. She wandered through many lands and eventually found her way to Erathia, and then to Bracada. There she met Iona, who impressed Regine with her intelligence and work ethic. The two are now inseparable.
Adrayn	Astral was always a bit upset when others made fun of his natural ability to cast the widely maligned spell "Hypnotize" when in reality, he had worked really hard to get so far from his starting position in such a short time. However, he was aware that he wasn't quite as powerful as the other wizards. That is, until he met the lightning mage Adrayn who was also studying part of the Alchemist's course, in combat skills. She taught him the ways of the elements which she had been born with, and now Astral is at least as powerful as the other Wizards, with more control than the mighty Solmyr.
Ybisa	On his journey from Enroth to Erathia, Halon met many people and befriended a select few. Some years later, when he was feeling a bit downtrodden after finding his skills in mysticism did not make him as highly regarded in Bracada as he had been in Enroth, he found he had new untapped abilities. The woman Ybisa, who had been a welcome friend on part of the long journey from Enroth to Erathia, came back into his life and helped him with his magical skills just as she had been helped with her fighting skills by a master.
Tiffin	When Tiffin, Serena's younger sister, came of age, she found that like her older sister, she too possessed enormous but uncontrolled magical power. Since Serena had already gone through the process of focusing her mind and controlling her gifts, she took Tiffin under her wing to train her.
Wendolyn	Worried about the safety of their reckless daughter, Daremyth, her parents hired Wendolyn to keep her out of trouble. Wendolyn's practicality and combat training make her the perfect companion for Daremyth, even though the two can't stand each other's cooking or taste in men.
Rassaleia	As a journeyman mage, Rassaleia considers herself lucky to have received training from the legendary Theodorus. After travelling far from her homeland of Karrydis, she proved not only smart enough to impress him, but also savvy enough to become his new Commander.
Kooky Kate	Kooky Kate (as everyone calls her) is always babbling on about the strange land she came from, a noisy and crowded place from the sound of it, but full of the most amazing kinds of magic, unlike anything seen in Erathia, Enroth or anywhere else in the known world. Solmyr isn't sure why Gavin Magnus assigned Kate as his Commander but he does enjoy her lively but quirky personality.
Robin	Robin, a spy for King Rufus, used magic to disguise himself as a woman and secure the position of Commander of Cyra's army. Cyra, having long given up on men, found herself attracted to Robin and slipped one of her old love potions into his rations. Robin instantly fell in love with Cyra but has so far resisted temptation through sheer will power so as not to give away his true identity.
Fidelia	Fidelia was a poor peasant girl before Aine adopted her after helping to liberate her town from the ruthless Dungeon Overlords who conquered it. Fidelia's parents died in the slave pits and the frightened but determined girl fled, travelling more than 40 miles alone to seek help from a neighbouring town. As she grew older, Fidelia's fighting spirit proved to be one of her greatest assets.
Typhenwyr	Typhenwyr feels rather uncomfortable around demons outside of combat situations, and she doesn't get on too well with other succubi either. However, she enjoys Fiona's company and shares her great love of animals. Currently she's trying to breed a beast she calls a hellcat, but so far she's had no success.
Siraneth	Siraneth was the first succubus strong-willed enough to stand up to Rashka. At first her defiance angered him, but the anger soon changed to a fiery passion that set both their hearts ablaze. Before long, a deep and enduring love developed between the two which carried over to the battlefield where they fight together as a united team.
Nastydia	Nastydia has an evil streak a mile long and enjoys nothing better than torturing young elves and chopping down old dendroids while they sleep. When she heard of Marius' master plan to destroy all woodland creatures she jumped at the chance to join in the fun.
Rishala	Rishala was a Commander of an imp division in the Kreegans' forces. Her troops were all defeated during the Battle of Steadwick. She wasn't given a second chance but was put under Ignatius' command.
Sinphyre	Sinphyre uses her wiles to get whatever she wants from men. Her expensive tastes and love of a good time led her to form a partnership with the more experienced Octavia. When they're not leading armies into battle, they often hold lavish parties and dupe wealthy lords out of their prize possessions.
Senshia	After Calh's break up with Marius, he picked up the young and seductive Senshia to accompany him on his long military campaigns. Senshia is as intelligent as she is beautiful and it wasn't long before she claimed the position of Commander, leading his troops to many glorious victories.
Littito Chaim	Littito Chaim is one of the infamous Chaim-twins. She and her sister use a harsh hand when ruling the troops, but an even harsher hand when it comes down to crushing the enemy. Their age is unknown, but they seem old enough to have been born in Enroth, although neither she nor her sister will confirm this rumor.
Fangeria	Fangeria has a bad habit of teasing pit lords, so it was only natural she would get to know Nymus, one of their best combat trainers. Nymus was amused by Fangeria's antics and recruited her to help in the training process, sometimes requesting that Fangeria give rewards to the pit lords who performed the best.
MADali	Ayden and his commander MADali have a tense relationship. Where Ayden is at times reluctant to use force to appease the country, MADali would rather lay waste to her surroundings. MADali is a member of the infamous FightClub, an underground gladiatorial association where only the most ruthless Commanders survive. There are some who say MadAli is really a male Efreet Sultan who has taken the form of a Succubus for his own demented purposes, but nobody seems to have proof and those who say they do seem to mysteriously vanish.
Flask	Flask is a skilled Commander and a fierce one, but her troops prefer to keep her at a safe distance as her fiery aura is known to have set friends ablaze on many occasions. Where Flask originates from is unknown, which worries Xyron who thinks she may be a spy for the other side.
Hengista	When Hengista joined Axsis to serve as his Commander in the field, the war over Erathia's heritage was still raging. She had little love for Axsis' demonic preferences, but she recognized him as the leader she would like to wage war with, rather than against.
Carry	Her name is only whispered amongst the Kreegan, and even then only if one is absolutely sure she is not around. Carry is a faithful Commander to Olema, but once the battles start, she will be relentless at her task--defeat the enemy and make sure they get no second chance, ever. Little is known of her background, but it is said she is forever avenging the death of her parents.
Rumpelnicks	Rumpelnicks joined Calid when she was still a mere flag bearer. Watching closely as Calid defeated her enemies, she learned the intricate details of strategy and tactics on the battlefield and slowly but determinedly climbed in the ranks of Calid's army.
Tom	Although her name might suggest otherwise, Tom is a woman, and as her troops will tell you, "A woman to die for!" Her beauty, in so far as mortal humans can appreciate it, could launch a thousand ships and then some. However there is little chance of her being in dire need. To this day she stands undefeated, both in personal battles and in commanding an army.
Aknathan	Aknathan used her aptitude at spellcasting on the high seas of Enroth. No ship she sailed would ever find itself in rough weather. After the demise of Enroth she sailed to Erathia and joined Zydar as a scout, but Zydar deemed her more worthy as a Commander after the battle at The Wall.
Tillito Chaim	Tillito Chaim is one of the infamous Chaim-twins. She and her sister use a harsh hand when ruling the troops, but an even harsher hand when it comes down to crushing the enemy. Their age is unknown, but they seem old enough to have been born in Enroth, although neither she nor her sister will confirm this rumor.
Spora	Most people, even other necromancers, cannot stand zombies. This made Straker less than popular. Fortunately, Spora likes them, as they are weak-minded, and thus easily controlled. She jumped at the chance to work with Straker, as when he one day becomes a necromancer, she will then be the undisputed leader of the walking dead.
Gangraile	Once a powerful and noble warrior, Gangraile was betrayed and cut down by her own men for greed. As she lay dying, a Vampire Lord named Vokial came by and gave her a new unlife. Her anger towards the people that betrayed her and left her for dead turned Gangraile into one of the most feared and hated of all necromancers. She now lives for nothing but the blood of her enemies.
Nagaina	Although most (aside from other liches) choose to leave liches alone, Moander's style of acting attracted many to him. Nagaina was one of the few who were also useful to him. Thus he used his natural charm, rather than a compulsion, to bind her loyalty to him.
Ertceps	Ertceps always worked with Charna in the early days of their exploration into darkness. One near undeath experience left them both with an uncanny ability to speak with spirits, particularly wights. They both feel more comfortable with them than any other undead.
Haragh	When Lord Haart was given command of a majority of the black knights, Haragh took the insult against Tamika's skill personally. Her outspoken dissent would have gotten her destroyed, but Tamika HAD felt slighted, and so protected Haragh. She continues to do so, while Haragh helps her to prove that she is better than Haart.
Lilith	Lilith was one of the strongest fighters that Isra had ever faced in battle. Not content with merely defeating her, Isra used her great skill at necromancy to raise and bind Lilith to her, where her combat skills would now forever support those she fought against.
Motana	They say you can't buy good help. They are wrong. The great wealth of Clavius's family easily attracted the highest caliber of warriors. The fact that Motana disliked garlic made her popular with the vampires as well--their support was instrumental in Motana's selection to assist Clavius.
Ebony	Ebony was an aspiring necromancer, always trying to impress the others of her kind, but unfortunately she never developed the sheer power needed to be very effective. However, she did find ways of producing better skeletons, though only Galthran realized this. He keeps her near, in case further improvements are coming.
Lianne	Lianne was converted to the undead at a young age and hasn't aged since. Looking like a twelve year old makes her adversaries underestimate her capabilities of dark magic. She prefers her victims to suffer as long as possible.
Razula	No one knows who Razula was in the past. Her corpse was animated by Aislinn who was practicing her necromantic magic somewhere in the Tower ruins. Razula was buried together with a beautiful ancient sword which she now uses with skill when she fights for Aislinn.
The Festering Zombie	With zombies it is always hard to assess if they have been male or female in their former life, especially if the parts keep falling off. The Festering Zombie is Sandro's Commander, but it is also likely that he chose this name out of affection.
Lasaye	Lasaye is as loyal to Nimbus as any undead is to her master. And this is why Nimbus doesn't trust Lasaye too much. Lasaye leads the army into battle with an eerie growl that will chill the marrow in your bones.
Elizia	Elizia was a poor village girl in Phynaxia. One day, while coming home from the fields, she found a wounded bleeding man. She cured him and fell in love. Weeks later it appeared that Thant was bitten by a vampire and had become one. Elizia's feelings were stronger than death. Now two vampires serve the powers of darkness.
Ma-Fon	When Xsi adopted Ma-Fon as his Commander in the field, she was about to marry into a rich family. Although undead she has still not forgiven Xsi for not raising her husband-to-be from the dead and she cooperates with her mistress only if she is promised the first blood of the battle.
Talia	In her early alchemist days, Vidomina once sought a legendary artifact on the Isle of Crypts. Talia met her during this search, and helped her, although the prize was stolen from them just as they found it. Not particularly concerned with ethics, Talia remained with Vi, even after she turned to the dark arts.
Carina	Carina is one of the few undead who will take pity on her victims. She's been know to cry after each kill she has made. Currently it is rumoured she is trying to seduce a formidable knight, but she has not yet succeeded in prying him away from DarkKittin's claws.
Refrea	Harpies are not known for a nurturing instinct. However, a few do show great compassion for foundlings. One such hag raised Refrea as a sister for Lorelei, despite the two being completely different races. The bond between the young human and the young minotaur that formed during this time has never faded in the least.
Huromam	When an outpost commanded by Huromam was set upon by an overwhelming force of invaders, Arlach's uncanny ability with artillery turned the tide. Though at first amazed that a troglodyte could fight so well, Huromam quickly realized that he could do much worse than to work with him.
Kaz	Every minotaur aspires to fight with Dace. This made the competition to become his lieutenant incredibly fierce and many contenders accidentally killed their rivals in their pursuit of the position. Kaz was good enough to survive the trials, and disciplined enough not to get too carried away with the contests, and so earned this great distinction.
Garath	Garath is said to be the reincarnation of Agar. The fact that he gets along well with the beholder kin only strengthens that appearance. Ajit believed it so strongly that he would not accept anyone else to work with him and the evil eyes.
Zhahov	As with Damacon, Zhahov is a reverse-mercenary: he will gladly repay anyone who will let him lead. Unfortunately, he doesn't have the cash to back it up. Luckily, he managed to join with Damacon, who found his skills useful, and so Zhahov gained a great leadership position.
Farosh	Farosh is one of the few who can keep up with Gunnar, when travelling through the twisted maze that is the Nighon tunnels. Most of those whom Gunnar tested for command skill are still said to be lost somewhere in the unknown depths. One day, perhaps, Farosh will go to rescue his rivals. Or perhaps not.
Toleoro	Toleoro admired the manticore more than any other creature in Nighon--they were powerful, swift, and not overly proud like the dragons. He taught Synca how to handle them when she first came to the underground caverns, and she quickly surpassed even his skill. When Synca needed a second, she thought of him first.
Orotiana	Orotiana was always fascinated by the abilities of a troglodyte to see without eyes. She figured the best way to learn more was to work closely with the best 'sighted' of them all. Thus, she sought out Shakti to offer her strength. The partnership has been mutually beneficial.
Xilebo	In his escape from the wrath of Roland, Xilebo was one of Alamar's captains. Being a minotaur of formidable size and eager to please his superiors, he climbed slowly but steadily through the ranks and is now the Commander for Alamar's army.
Vesteda	Jaegar's Commander is a female Minotaur, Vesteda. Although young, for a minotaur and a Commander, she is unsurpassed in her ability to wield the axe. When she performs her "Song of the Axe" it is unlikely that any foe will be able to so much as scratch her.
Mosselmran	While Malekith weaves his evil spells, it will be Mosselmran who will steer the troops to annihilate the enemies that are still standing. He may be an old and grizzled minotaur, but there is no doubt in the mind of anyone who has ever faced him (and lived), that he is a formidable warrior. Mosselmran stems from an old line of minotaurs and his bloodline goes back to right after the Silence.
Titus	Titus was unhappy with her home. She was one of the very few minotaurs who did not like their labyrinths, or even the dungeon. When she found that Jeddite had the skill to convert any sort of town to any other, she joined up with him, hoping to one day get a satisfactory dwelling.
Kroon	A few people have accused Kroon of cowardess, since she will always advance behind her troops. None of those have survived. But the fact is that she will be the last one to enter the fray. However, since no one dares to defy her orders to advance, most of the troops seem to enter the fray earlier than troops of other Commanders.
Acer	Acer is not too happy when Deemer casts his Meteor spell in battle. But it is not the possible loss of friendly troops that concerns him, but because there will be fewer foes for himself to face. Technically, Acer is a card-carrying member of Warlock # 13, but he hasn't attended any meetings since he accepted the command of Deemer's army.
Letoq	As a minotaur, Letoq had little love for female warlocks in the field. But when he faced Sephinroth in a Tournament of Honor in Ninevah, he was convinced that she was worthy of the title. Since Letoq did win that battle, for some people it is still uncertain if Letoq really is Sephinroth's minion, or if it might be the other way around.
Hellfire	Hellfire is the name the troops have given Darkstorn's Commander and he has been carrying it for so long that none can remember his real name...and Hellfire won't tell. He comes from a new line of minotaur blood, that started in Erathia, but he has sworn a vow of celibacy, so his name will be lost in time.
Urt ab N'dir	Yog's Commander, Urt ab N'dir, was born into a family that boasts to have its roots back in Enroth. Yog doubts this seriously, being from the Old World himself, since he never came across the family-name ab N'dir in all the time he spent in Enroth. But one look at the fervour with which Urt commanded his troops in battle was enough for Yog to sign him on as a Commander.
Nathaniel	Although his name suggests otherwise, Nathaniel is a thoroughbred ogre. Having to defend himself against ridicule all his life, Nathaniel grew up to be a fierce and merciless warrior, who smacked many a skull in direct battle. While Gurnisson can be found to direct the cyclops, ballistae and catapult, Nathaniel will be in the front ranks wreaking havoc amongst his adversaries.
Akhenabi	Akhenabi was born and raised in the Ksuur Wastes of Kiaq. He attained the status of Barbarian after enduring the perilous journey to Shaktor and surviving one month in the suffocating fog. What dangers lie in Shaktor is a mystery to all but those that have survived: generals. Though he might have chosen hero-status, Akhenabi decided there was more gold to be earned as a Commander.
Imitoc	Imitoc fell for Shiva's hard-boiled humour when they first encountered each other in The Siege of Norvaths Break. At that time both were in the service of Marcus the Red. After the battle they decided it would be beneficial to both if they stuck together.
Grunor	Although Grunor, like many other ogres, has little love for the goblins that fill Gretchin's ranks, he will put up with them. "If we are to have cannon-fodder," he once told his friends, "we might as well have a lot of it." His strategic insights are like many of the ogres. "Beat them to pulp first and think about it later."
Tuuq	It is sometimes difficult to discern Tuuq from his troops as he will not wear any insignia of rank. His troops however know that in battle there is only one way to go: forward--and Tuuq will beat senseless any and all stragglers.
Kalexander	Where Crag Hack is the offensive strategist, Kalexander, his ogre Commander, is the one who will make sure no opponent ever gets through the defensive line, once it has been drawn. Kalexander was one of the last to leave Enroth when it was swallowed by The Dark Tide and he met Crag Hack on the voyage to Erathia.
Conan	In the confusion following the war between the Barbarian kings Kilgor and Boragus, the young Conan lost his parents. As an orphan, he was accepted as a farmhand at Tyraxor's estate and quickly grew in length as well as strength. He soon stepped into service under Tyraxor thanks to his skill, both with the sword as well as in protective magic. He is believed to be the youngest Commander ever, which is a great achievement in war-focused Krewlod.
Qinkapi	Qinkapi originates from the snowy mountains of Kruku. Seeing that joining a wandering hero would profit him more than protecting an ancient battle-mage, he joined Gird when she was learning several cold spells from his former master.
Milyn-se-Gandiris	Milyn-se-Gandiris was born and raised in Enroth, but when The Dark Tide swept over the country he had not yet received his first battle honours. Consequently, Milyn had to earn his insignia in the battles that followed Queen Catherine's landing in Erathia. He holds the Gryphon-Heart Medal of Valour and the Distinctive Cross of the Paladin.
Cavean	 "Move too fast and you'll find yourself alone in the front!" Clavean considers himself the one and only who can keep Dessa in check when he launches a campaign. If Dessa rides out, you'll be sure to find this proud ogre right beside him.
Sidrick	The eldest son of a barbarian chieftain, Sidrick grew up wild and free in a highland clan. Upon his fathers' demise, clan tradition demanded that he and his brother fight to the death with leadership of the clan going to the victor. Since he loved his brother and didn't want to slay him, Sidrick snuck away from his clan, becoming an outcast mercenary for the lords of the lowland cities.
Galdan, the Goat	Galdan, the Goat, the troops have nicknamed this commander of Zubin. Whenever the rations are short, Galdan will find supplies to fill the needs of the regiment, although most do not want to know what kind of meat Galdan supplies the cooks with.
Myrdas	Although small for the general ogre, Myrdas has the strength and stamina of a behemoth. Myrdas was born in the Krewlod-region, but raised under the tutelage of Tazar the Beastmaster. When he came of age, he left Tazar and offered his services to Gundula.
Sporndag	The goblins in Oris' army have nicknamed Sporndag "The Talons of Oris". Whenever Oris send Sporndag out on a mission, there is never a doubt in anyone's mind that the ogre will succeed. And when he leads the army, there is little to no chance his opponent will be able to flee or surrender, for when unleashed, Sporndag will land on his prey like a roc.
Gnivri	Gnivri is not an ogre one notices in Saurug's stronghold or in the bivouac, when the army is on campaign. He keeps to himself and leaves the petty chores of day to day army life to his adjutants. However, when engaged in battle, there is no doubt in anyone's mind who commands the forces.
Grilm	Grilm was the only person able to fight at Bron's side against basilisks, as he used a mirrored shield to protect himself from the gaze that Bron seemed to ignore. This cleverness earned him a position as Bron's aide in all future battles.
Furgh	It's hard to find good help, especially when you work best with the weakest forces in the army. Fortunately, Furgh was not only an adept Commander, but he also had a knack for keeping the gnolls in line. These skills made his services very useful to Drakon.
Sarissa	The dangers of court politics required Wystan to seek friends only from among his own trusted troops. The most skilled of them, however, he decided should be kept under his personal watch. Sarissa was that lucky one.
Gageteer	During The Annual Beastmaster's Slugfest, a regiment of gnolls held their own against Tazar's force. Their Commander turned out to be Gageteer, the Savage Gnoll, whom Tazar promptly recruited to lead his secondary armies. During the Krewlod border wars it was Gageteer who rallied every available gnoll in Tatalia to reinforce Tazar's heroic stand at the borderlines. Rumor has it that Gageteer will not lead his troops into battle under a full moon.
S'Mour	Alkin's aide de camp, S'Mour, made a name for himself during the Taigin Purdu incident, where he personally led his heavily outnumbered army against the forces of an evil wizard with such fervor and fury that even the titans fled. When Alkin heard of this maniacal strategy, he decided that it would be better to have S'Mour by his side than opposing him. S'Mour, who had no real ambition to play a part in the political machinations that are involved in the defense of Tatalia, gladly accepted the offer. He is also known for his outstanding means of communication with the wild beasts that form the heart of the Fortress' armies.
Drazzi	Drazzi was as capable with them as only the best beekeepers hope to be with their charges--and dragonflies are much harder to control. It was when searching for someone to take care of his beloved serpent flies that Korbac found him.
Nitya	Nitya was one of the soldiers who helped in capturing Gerwulf's famed ballista. It was Nitya's daring that allowed it to be captured, and so she earned a promotion to Gerwulf's second-in-command.
Slythe	Son of a failed apprentice to Broghild's grandfather, Slythe still shared the love of the wyverns that his father could never tame. Although at times more an annoyance than a help, his honest desire to work with these creatures eventually won over Broghild, and he has helped work with the wyverns ever since.
Nilla	A fellow dabbler in the arcane, Nilla was instrumental in getting Mirlanda to realize the hazards of certain types of research. Though not nearly as talented, she has been held in high regard by Mirlanda ever since that time. As a result, Nilla was the first person Mirlanda chose to accompany her.
Lyra	Lyra was an apprentice herbalist who tended to use unorthodox methods in her treatments. She was the one who prepared a mystic remedy for the fever that Rosic had contracted but her master would not let her test it. She did so in secret, but her master found out and banished her for disobedience. Fortunately, Rosic remembered her help and returned the favour by providing a home.
Nynyzek	Nynyzek lived on the coast of Tatalia, not caring to dwell within the swampy forests. She also wanted to explore the world, but had no means to do so until she met Voy. Having similar sentiments about the swamp, and many connections among ship owners, Voy was immensely helpful to her. In return, she helps Voy in her tasks.
Etza	Returning one day from yet another unsanctioned trip into the forests, Etza found her town decimated by an Overlord raid. She found the wounded Verdish trying to go after them, and only through her calm voice and clear thinking was she able to convince Verdish to rest and get help first. Etza has stayed with her ever since, a cool voice of reason to temper the ever-present rage.
Filia	A close childhood friend of Merist, Filia knew that when Merist was pressed into service she would need support. She managed to convince the Tatalian leaders that it was to their advantage to have her with Merist. Merist is now gratefully provided with a constant source of support.
Zoscha	Zoscha is a mad witch. She once tried to change her home swamp into desert using ice magic. She had almost succeeded when she suddenly fainted. Through her powers Styg found her, but Zoscha had lost her memory. She joined Styg and now recovers her past and memories on the battlefield.
Hriss	Hriss was a retainer in King Tralossk's court when Andra was seeking to become a general in his army. Amazed at how she easily passed the tests set for her, Hriss decided then and there that Andra was someone she wanted to be associated with.
Tanya	Impressed by the way Tiva seems to always have more spells than available in mage guilds, Tanya actively sought to accompany her on her journeys. Though she will never be as adept at spellcasting as her personal hero, Tanya has proven herself in battle many times; Tiva cannot think of anyone she would rather have at her side.
Zelda	Zelda felt an irresistible urge to seek out Pasis. This was because as a gypsy psychic, meeting a being of pure psychic energy was akin to meeting a god! Although Pasis proved not to be divine in origin, they still managed to become good friends, and apparently this association has improved Zelda's ability as well.
Eratz	Eratz was interested in construction. Particularly that of the Erathian capitol, as those buildings were sturdier than anywhere else. In his investigation, he discovered this was due to aid given by Thunar; of course an earth elemental could build sturdy structures. Eratz succeeded in being taken on as an apprentice by her, and has never once regretted the decision.
Ray	After Ignissa finished the task she was summoned for, Ray felt guilty about her not being able to return home. When he heard Ignissa had gone to serve the Conflux, he decided to seek her out, intending to be certain that when the crisis had passed, she would survive and be able to return home. This reversal of roles is Ray's way of apologizing for the whole mess.
Maya	Maya always revered water, probably because she came from a parched desert area. As a result, she often sang songs of water by an oasis. Lacus heard of this from a naiad living in the oasis, and so went to see Maya in person. After a short conversation, Lacus realized that she had found someone who would, with a little guidance, be a great help to her. Maya was only too pleased to agree to work with her.
Ordelz	Monere was curious about flesh and blood beings. Ordelz was curious about the true nature of magic. It was very fortunate that these two met. Now, Monere shares his insights into magic, as only one such as he can, and Ordelz returns the favor with insights into the mortal being. Each is certain the other has the harder task.
Fecia	Though smart and wise, Fecia was destined to be a sacrifice to a volcano, due to her village's superstitions. Before the fated day, she sought out help, and was surprised to find it in Erdamon. With him hiding within the crater, she was caught when thrown in, and got away--never once looking back at the backwards village she came from.
Aiche	When Fiur first appeared on the battlefield, everyone with a desire for battle and glory wanted to team up with him. Fiur chose Aiche from all the others, because unlike most of the others, he was powerful and brave, but not reckless. They now form a practically unstoppable duo.
Haley	Haley was always drawn to the cold. When the first snows of winter came, she was the first to go out and play in it. When she met Kalt, a being of pure ice, it was like a dream come true. And with her intense curiosity, she was a natural to help out the scholarly Kalt.
Rydia	Fire had always frightened Rydia, ever since her home village was destroyed by fire when she was very young. Although she developed her skills greatly, this fear was always an obstacle to her. Thus she sought out someone who could help and found Luna. Luna showed her that fire could be used to protect, as well as destroy. In gratitude, when Luna was needed to lead the elemental armies, Rydia came along to support her.
Loedan	When the Confluxes disappeared, the areas where they previously resided became favorite places to explore, since some stray magic often remained. When Brissa sped by one day, Loedan thought he had seen some kind of fairy, since genies normally don't move that fast. Loedan's natural speed allowed him to keep up with her anyway, and thus he was able to get to know Brissa better. They have been fast friends ever since.
Gartrough	Gartrough had studied the nature of water for many years. Unfortunately, water decided to study him on an ocean voyage, when his ship got caught in a storm, and shattered. He was lucky to survive the incident, and even more so when Ciele found him washed up on the shore. Their common interest sparked a great friendship, and when Ciele left for the Conflux, Gartrough felt quite happy to accompany her.
Elena	En route from Avlee, Labetha met Elena when she happened by a recent battle site. Elena had been defending a dryad's home from a group of gogs. Touched by her defense of the woods, Labetha asked Elena if she would like to join her on her journeys. The idea of the Conflux filled Elena with wonder, and she readily agreed to come along.
Setteus	Probably Inteus's most loyal fan from his entertainment days, Setteus followed Inteus even after leaving for the Conflux. He was fortunate enough to prove he could be helpful when Inteus was beset by a band of brigands. Setteus ran to help, and felt the great surge of energy from a bloodlust spell as he set to the rogues. Their partnership was the obvious result.
Venira	It is hard being an outcast. Although Venira never did anything wrong, people tended to ignore her, to the point that she did not feel comfortable around others. When she saw Aenain's efforts at acceptance, it sparked new resolve within. She approached Aenain as a kindred spirit, and they have worked together ever since.
Tedan	Many were put off by Gelare's calm and quiet attitude. When Tedan first approached him, she was very nervous, but soon found him to be a very pleasant person. Most still can't see this, and she hasn't really tried to convince others. Friendships shouldn't need to be explained.
Jortillo	Some sixth sense had led Jortillo to believe that the abandoned mine still had a load of gold within. It was soon after locating this vein that he met Grindan, coming from the other direction. Their gold affinity made them natural partners, and that has continued to this day.
Galina	Galina met Sir Mullich when he quartered his troops at her tavern. She fed his troops good healthy food to sustain them, and then took to one of them with a wooden spoon when he started slacking off. Impressed, Sir Mullich offered her a permanent job.
Arlene	Arlene was one of the very few people in Tatalia who did not shun Adrienne for her desire to learn fire magic. She was also the only one of those left who encouraged her to follow her heart. Always supportive of her, Arlene continues to do so now that she has need of a reliable right hand.
Arthur Kendal	Every good ruler has loyal supporters, and the Kendal family have provided several to the Erathian Queen. Major Arthur Kendal acts as Catherine's bodyguard when his uncle the General is further a field.
Cherryl	Dracon is a dragon slayer. Cherryl is of titan stock. Normally this would be all that you need for a good pair. What made this pairing better is that just as Dracon found slaying the mighty azure unfulfilling, Cherryl realized the futility in the black dragon rivalry which merely hurts both sides. She no longer harbours that enmity, but has learned to deflect that added force they use against her.
Eransar	Eransar is one of Gelu's best students, and is currently fighting beside him. Although he feels like he is just as good, if not better, at archery than Gelu, he still hasn't been noticed. Because of this, every day he tries to prove himself, which sometimes gets him into trouble, and thus his superiors feel that he still has much to learn.
Hrothgar	One of the first ogres to join with Kilgor in the Festival, Hrothgar quickly demonstrated that he had more skill than to merely lead his own tribe of ogres and ogre magi. Time and again he proved this, and so Kilgor made Hrothgar his right-hand, since otherwise Hrothgar might have become a rival in the next Festival.
Abalard	Abalard was Lord Haart's most devoted follower. She was so devoted that even death (and subsequent reanimation) could not separate her from her former leader. Her reappearance surprised even the necromancers involved in raising Haart.
Miah	Miah grew up in Nighon, and was enlisted into the Nighonese military at an early age. He fought his way to the top by every means possible, eventually coming into the service of a Dungeon Overlord by the name of Rauric. When Mutare killed Rauric, Miah was one of the first to join her.
Kerry	Roland took Kerry on as a bodyguard because the squire reminded him so much of the younger Nicholas. His troops' speculation about the possibility of Kerry being a GryphonHeart by-blow was swiftly squashed; Kerry claims only commoner heritage.
Miah	Originally, General Miah was stationed to guard Mutare's own lands when Mutare went on her expansive campaigns. Now, however, times have changed, and with Mutare as the Dragon Queen of Nighon, Miah has been called on to aid her in her latest goal--world conquest.
Rilgaran	Rilgaran had wanted to lead an army just like his uncle Boragus ever since he was ten years old. At age twelve, he started his own gang, the Rattlebone Chompers, and pillaged half of lower Orc Town before he was stopped. His uncle thought he showed great promise as a leader and paid for his military training. Now fifteen, Rilgaran is one of the youngest Ogre Leaders, but also one of the best.
Xanyx	Although Kreegan generals have little use for friends in the traditional sense, they do have favored acquaintances. For Xeron, this was Xanyx. Her cunning and devious plans are a perfect complement for Xeron's brute force tactics. It is no wonder that they are as close to friends as they could be: two such as these either would be, or they would kill each other. Since the latter hasn't happened, the former must be the case.
